# Introduction to Computational Biology II

## Objectives

Learn about algorithms and sequence alignment. Alignment is one of the most important topics for computational biology and the basis for the project's experiments: assembly, phage classification and annotation. Answer the following questions with an online search. Complement your search with ChatGPT (see below), but do not restrict yourself with this tool.  

-------

- What is an algorithm? 
- Give an example of an algorithm
- What differences do you notice when using ChatGPT and Google?
- Describe the BLOSUM matrix

-----

The following book, by Prof. Manolis Kellis, was used for a course on Computational Biology and contains several topics that are relevant for our module: https://ocw.mit.edu/ans7870/6/6.047/f15/MIT6_047F15_Compiled.pdf Read the following sections and summarize their key points in your lab book:

---------

- Read pages 25 to 30 of chapter "SEQUENCE ALIGNMENT AND DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING"  
- Read section "2.4.1 Theory of Dynamic Programming"
- Read section 2.4.3

---------

If there is time:

---------

- Read pages 34 to 39 "2.5 The Needleman-Wunsch Algorithm" 

---------

## ChatGPT

ChatGPT is an important tool that has been developed very recently. It can help you to learn, since it is a language tool. You can ask it questions and it will interact with you in a conversational way: https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt  

Even though its interaction with the user is amazing and it outputs interesting information, you should also use it critically. This tool is concerned with language and not with scientific accuracy. It can help you to program and even answer scientific questions, but you should always double check the information using a trusted source.
