# Data Visualization

Visualization is a very important step in analyzing your data. This can be done differently, using python (matplotlib, seaborn) or R (ggplot2) for example. You will analyse the viral annotation using matplotlib.  

## Theory

-----

- What is a computational pipeline?
- What are python dataframes?
- What is matplotlib?

-----

## Practice

Using draw.io (or inkscape or another tool of you liking), draw a pipeline of analysis for you project. Follow the example of: https://www.rna-seqblog.com/a-computational-pipeline-for-cross-species-analysis-of-rna-seq-data-using-r-and-bioconductor/. Save the image in your lab book and make sure to include it in the presentation of your final project.  

Create a jupyter notebook and using python, do the following tasks:

-----

- Open the genes file produced by pharokka
- Create a new object (dataframe) with the ID of the gene as one column, the start and end of the gene as second and third columns
- Plot the start position of the genes using matplotlib

-----

To do these tasks, you can research online or use the book "Python Data Science Handbook" from Jake VanderPlas. The author has kindly released it online for free: https://jakevdp.github.io/PythonDataScienceHandbook/.  

If there is time, do the next tasks:

-----
  
- Calculate the size of the genes by subtracting the columns and store the results in a new column
- Plot the distribution of protein sizes using matplotlib
- Calculate the mean, median and standard deviation lengths of you proteins
- 
-----
